# Libraries

A library is a collection of precompiled routines that a program can use. Libraries are particularly useful for storing frequently used routines, such as those that perform mathematical operations or output text to the screen.

## Standard Libraries

The C standard library is a collection of functions that are part of the C programming language. These functions are defined in the standard header files that come with the C compiler. Some of the most commonly used standard libraries include:

- `stdio.h`: Contains functions for input and output operations.
- `stdlib.h`: Contains functions for memory allocation and deallocation.
- `ctype.h`: Contains functions for character handling.
- `string.h`: Contains functions for manipulating strings.
- `math.h`: Contains functions for mathematical operations.
- `time.h`: Contains functions for manipulating time.

## libcs50

libcs50 is a library that contains functions that are specific to the CS50 course. These functions are defined in the `cs50.h` header file and are used to simplify common tasks in C programming. Some of the most commonly used functions in CS50lib include:

- `get_char()`: Prompts the user for a character.
- `get_string()`: Prompts the user for a string.
- `get_int()`: Prompts the user for an integer.
- `get_float()`: Prompts the user for a float.
- `get_double()`: Prompts the user for a double.
- `get_long()`: Prompts the user for a long.

To use the CS50lib functions in your program, you need to include the `cs50.h` header file at the beginning of your program:

```c
#include <cs50.h>
```

> To use the CS50 library, you need to install the CS50 library on your computer. You can find instructions on how to install the CS50 library on the [CS50 website](https://cs50.readthedocs.io/libraries/cs50/c/).

## User-Defined Libraries

In addition to the standard libraries, you can also create your own libraries in C. These libraries contain functions that you have written yourself and can be reused in multiple programs. To create a user-defined library, you need to follow these steps:

1. Write the functions you want to include in the library.
2. Save the functions in a separate source file (`.c` file).
3. Create a header file (`.h` file) that contains the function prototypes.
4. Compile the source file into an object file (`.o` file).
5. Link the object file with your program.

Here is an example of a user-defined library:

```c
// mylib.h
#ifndef MYLIB_H
#define MYLIB_H

void greet(void);

#endif
```