# Representing Strings

## ASCII

ASCII is the acronym for American Standard Code for Information Interchange. It is a character encoding standard for electronic communication. ASCII codes represent text in computers, telecommunications equipment, and other devices.

Examples:

- from `A` to `Z` is represented as `65` to `90`
- from `a` to `z` is represented as `97` to `122`
- from `0` to `9` is represented as `48` to `57`
- `!` is represented as `33`
- `?` is represented as `63`

Since binary can only count up to 255 we are limited to the number of characters represented by ASCII.

> ðŸ”¤ If you wish, you can learn more about [ASCII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII), or see the [ASCII table](../materials/ascii-table.md).


## UNICODE

Unicode is a computing industry standard for the consistent encoding, representation, and handling of text expressed in most of the world's writing systems. The Unicode standard provides a unique number for every character, no matter what platform, device, application, or language.

Examples:

- from `A` to `Z` is represented as `U+0041` to `U+005A`
- from `a` to `z` is represented as `U+0061` to `U+007A`
- from `0` to `9` is represented as `U+0030` to `U+0039`
- `!` is represented as `U+0021`
- `?` is represented as `U+003F`

> If you wish, you can learn more about [Unicode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode), or see the [Unicode table](../materials/unicode-table.md).

### Emoji

Unicode allows for the representation of characters from different languages, including special characters, such as emojis.

Emoji are ideograms and smileys used in electronic messages and web pages. Emoji exist in various genres, including facial expressions, common objects, places, and types of weather, and animals.

There are emoji that you probably use every day. The following may look familiar to you:

| Emoji | Unicode |
|-------|---------|
| ðŸ˜‚    | U+1F602 | 
| ðŸ˜    | U+1F60D |
| ðŸ˜Ž    | U+1F60E |
| ðŸ˜œ    | U+1F61C |
| ðŸ˜¡    | U+1F621 |
| ðŸ˜¢    | U+1F622 |

> If you wish, you can learn more about [emoji](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emoji), or see the [emoji table](../materials/emoji-table.md).
