# Deals with Files in C

Dealing with files in C is a common task in many programs. Files are used to store data, read data, and write data. In this lecture, we will learn how to work with files in C.

### Common File Operations:

- Opening a file
- Reading data from a file
- Writing data to a file
- Closing a file

### Opening a File:

To open a file in C, we use the `fopen()` function. The `fopen()` function takes two arguments: the name of the file to open and the mode in which to open the file. The mode can be one of the following:

- `"r"`: Open the file for reading.
- `"w"`: Open the file for writing. If the file does not exist, it will be created. If the file already exists, its contents will be overwritten.
- `"a"`: Open the file for appending. If the file does not exist, it will be created. If the file already exists, new data will be appended to the end of the file.

Here is an example of opening a file for writing:

```c
FILE *file = fopen("data.txt", "w");
```

### Reading Data from a File:

To read data from a file in C, we use the `fscanf()` function. The `fscanf()` function reads data from a file and stores it in variables. Here is an example of reading an integer from a file:

```c
int num;
fscanf(file, "%d", &num);
```

### Writing Data to a File:

To write data to a file in C, we use the `fprintf()` function. The `fprintf()` function writes data to a file. Here is an example of writing an integer to a file:

```c
int num = 42;
fprintf(file, "%d", num);
```

### Closing a File:

To close a file in C, we use the `fclose()` function. The `fclose()` function takes a file pointer as an argument and closes the file. Here is an example of closing a file:

```c
fclose(file);
```