# Typedef

Typedef is a keyword in C which is used to assign alternative names to existing data types. The `typedef` keyword must be used before the data type it is defining.

```c
typedef int myInt;
```

In this example, `myInt` is an alias for the `int` data type. You can now use `myInt` instead of `int` in your code.

```c
myInt x = 10;
```

This declares a variable `x` of type `myInt` with the value `10`.

Typedef is commonly used with structures to simplify the syntax of declaring variables of that structure type.

```c
typedef struct {
    int x;
    int y;
} Point;
```

In this example, `Point` is an alias for the structure with two integer members `x` and `y`. You can now declare variables of type `Point` without using the `struct` keyword.

```c
Point p;
p.x = 10;
p.y = 20;
```

This declares a variable `p` of type `Point` and sets its members `x` and `y` to `10` and `20`, respectively.

Typedef can also be used with function pointers to simplify the syntax of declaring function pointers.

```c
typedef int (*myFunc)(int, int);
```

In this example, `myFunc` is an alias for a function pointer that takes two `int` arguments and returns an `int`. You can now declare function pointers of this type without using the full syntax.

```c
int add(int a, int b) {
    return a + b;
}

myFunc f = add;
int result = f(10, 20);
```

This declares a function `add` that takes two `int` arguments and returns their sum. It then declares a function pointer `f` of type `myFunc` and assigns the `add` function to it. Finally, it calls the function pointer `f` with arguments `10` and `20` and stores the result in the `result` variable.

> To learn more about `typedef`, see the [C Typedef](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/typedef-in-c/) tutorial.