# Compiling in C

A compiler is a program that translates code written in a high-level programming language (like C) into machine code, which is a low-level programming language that the computer can understand. The compiler reads the code written by the programmer and translates it into a language that the computer can understand. This process is called compiling.

## How does a compiler work?

A compiler works by reading the code written by the programmer and translating it into machine code. The compiler reads the code line by line, checking for errors and translating the code into machine code. If the compiler finds an error in the code, it will stop compiling and display an error message to the programmer.

## What is the difference between compiling and interpreting?

Compiling and interpreting are two different ways of translating code written in a high-level programming language into machine code. Compiling translates the entire code into machine code before running it, while interpreting translates the code line by line as it is being run. Compiling is generally faster than interpreting, but interpreting is more flexible and can be easier to debug.

## Compiling a C program

To compile a C program, you need to use a compiler like `gcc` or `clang`. The compiler reads the code written by the programmer and translates it into machine code. The compiled program can then be run on the computer.

1. Compile a C program using the `gcc` command.

```bash
gcc -o program program.c
```

2. Run the compiled program.

```bash
./program
```

### Using the `make` command

The `make` command is a tool that automates the process of compiling and running a C program. The `make` command reads a file called `Makefile` that contains instructions on how to compile and run the program. The `Makefile` contains a list of rules that tell `make` how to compile and run the program.

```makefile
program: program.c
    gcc -o program program.c

run: program
    ./program
```

To compile and run the program using the `make` command, run the following commands:

```bash
make program.c
make run
```

## Common compiler errors

- Syntax errors: Errors that occur when the code does not follow the rules of the programming language.

- Semantic errors: Errors that occur when the code does not do what the programmer intended it to do.

- Linker errors: Errors that occur when the compiler cannot find the functions or libraries that the code is trying to use.

- Runtime errors: Errors that occur when the code is running and something goes wrong.